Trivia API
------

### Technologies Used
- Python
- Flask
- SQLAlchemy
- PostgreSQL

## Models

### Question 
Represents a question that can be part of a quiz.

Class Variables:
- ``id``: unique integer id generated by postgres
- ``question``: Text of the question
- ``answer``: Correct answer of the question
- ``category``: id of the category that the question falls under
- ``Difficulty``: Difficulty rating of the question

Class Methods:
- ``insert()``: Inserts the drink object into the SQL database.
- ``delete()``: Deletes the drink object from the SQL database.
- ``update()``: Updates the drink object in the SQL database.
- ``format()``: Returns a formatted rendition of a Question object. The returned dict includes all the class variables as describes above. 

### Category
All questions have a category they fall under, such as *Science*. 

Class Variables:
- ``id``: unique integer id generated by postgres
- ``type``: Text name of the category

Class Methods:
-``format()``: Returns a formatted rendition of a Question object. The returned dict includes all the class variables as describes above. 

## Endpoints
Endpoints are located in ``backend/flaskr/__init__.py``

Categories:
- ``GET /categories``
  - Returns:
    - ``categories``: List of all categories
    - ``totalCategories``: total number of categories
- ``GET /categories/<int:category_id>/questions``: Gets a list of questions filtered by category
  - Args:
    - ``category_id``: id of the category to be filtered by
  - Returns:
    - ``questions``: List of questions that fall under the given category
    - ``totalQuestions``: total number of questions that fall under the given category
    - ``currentCategory``: given category ID

Questions:
- ``GET /questions``: This endpoint is used to populate the home page, so it returns question AND category data. The list of questions is paginated 10 at a time based on current page.
  - Params:
    - ``page``: Current page of questions the user is on
  - Returns:
    - ``questions``: List of all questions
    - ``totalQuestions``: total number of questions
    - ``categories``: List of all categories
    - ``currentCategory``: id of current category
- ``DELETE /questions/<int:question_id>``: Removes a specified question
  - Args:
    - ``question_id``: id of question to be deleted from the database
- ``POST /questions``: Creates a new question in the database
  - Params:
    - ``question``: text of question
    - ``answer``: correct answer to the question
    - ``category``: id of the category of the question
    - ``difficulty``: difficulty rating of the question
  - Returns:
    - ``created_id``: id of the newly created question
- ``POST /questions/search``: Performs a search for a question given a search term.
  - Params:
    - ``search_term``: String to be searched for
  - Returns:
    - ``questions``: List of questions matching the search term
    - ``totalQuestions``: Total number of questions matching the search term

Quizzes:
- ``POST /quizzes``: This endpoint is used to play a quiz. It is called each time a new question is given to the player.
  - Params:
    - ``quiz_category``: Category that the quiz will be
    - ``previous questions``: List of all previous questions used in the quiz so that no question is repeated.
  - Returns:
    - ``question``: Randomly selected question. 


